We are considering the two tasks below. We will start with the binary classification task, if that goes well, or either way maybe, we'll do the delay task.

Binary classification task - predict flight cancellations 

89884 flights out of 5819079 were cancelled so this is very imbalanced. 




Potentially useful features: month, day, day of week, airline, origin airport, destination airport
New features: month -> season at departure airport, season at arriving airport

Probably not useful: scheduled departure, departure_time, distance

Dont use: taxi out, wheels off, scheduled time, elapsed time, air time, arrival, arrival_Delay, diverted, cancellation + the rest (any feature a person would not have access to
at the very least at the time of take off should be discarded).u




In a given column, how to handle NaN values? Build the relevant feature matrix, toss out NaN. If it reduces it too much, try imputation. The important thing here is that
we are all doing the same thing. 




Error metric: balanced error rate, FPR, FNR 



Tensor flow package might be useful!

Logistic regression, random forrest regressor, SVM, Neural Network (?)

Ensemble method









Continuous task - predict flight delays (DEPARTURE_DELAY)
 

Potentially useful features: month, day, day of week, airline, origin airport, destination airport
New features: month -> season at departure airport, season at arriving airport

Ridge Regression

Error metric: MSE (MAE)








REPORT OUTLINE:

introduction 

describe the data set

exploratory analysis

Relevant features/preprocessing

MODEL

unsuccessful attempts?

Conclusion

Future work

Literature





TO DO:
1) we need to come to an agreement on which features will are allowable - we think we have them decided above, but if not make any notes.
From there we need to decide on how to handle NaN - we should do this by tonight if possible. 
1.1) Exploratory analysis, do some descriptive statistics?

2) Literature search for new features

3) Start running regression models, SVM, etc, etc. Lets compare models on like friday? We were thinking the best error metrics are balanced error rate, FNR and FPR. See above. 

4) Let's just start writing the report. If you want to work but dont want to code, start writing some of the report up - intro, data set, etc. Im leaning towards using overleaf.

